---
path: '/blog/2020/lego'
lastEdit: 2020-04-30T19:12:33.962Z
date: ''
title: 'Redesign: Lego'
location: São Paulo, Brazil
subtitle: ""
topics: design, meta, redesign, typography
featuredImage: ''
published: true
accent: ''

---
I’ve been away from this project for over a month now. As you might have noticed, I ended up taking a little bit of a hiatus as the world got a bit crazy ever since[^1]. But here we are, learning how to get to the other side of this together — even if from a distance.

This past month I've avoided jumping into code after work so I had a some time away from the screen. I think I'm getting the hang of it now and am more comfortable to slowly get back to this website.

I wanted to talk about some of the key layout bricks used here as well as how I'm structuring the bits of code that make them.

###Type scales
Most of the major styling frameworks today — Gatsby's standard included — have pretty decent type scales. I'm not the kind of designer that normally pushes for HUGE fonts and also care about accessibility enough to avoid 12pt body text. For a project like this, using all styles from `h1` to `h6` plus paragraph seems a bit of an overkill. I won't be using these many and  think 4 styles might be more than enough for now.

For the `font-size` at HTML level I am using Gatsby's default of `112.5%/1.45em` (18px instead of browser's default 16px). And then for each text tag I'm using rem units. I have completely discarded h6, getting me 5 title styles and one for paragraphs. As I'm using Markdown to write 99.99% of this website I also decided the `h4` will have the same size as `p`, with just a different weight and color, giving me more flexibility when writing `.md` files.

After some minor letter-spacing adjustments, here's what I got.
[image showing all 5 type sizes and color]

###Variables
For now I'm using mostly colour variables but this will likely expand in the future to spacing too. 
[img showing all the different colours in use]

###Light and dark
In the future this site will support different colour themes — but if you know how to inspect code in you can already see it in action by adding `data-theme="dark"` inside the `<html>` tag. Trying to keep the layout clean and add colour in the details (primary links, code, selection, etc)
[image showing light and dark themes at work]

###Grid and page body
This is going to be a unpopular opinion. For the past couple of years I've been designing mostly for mobile and my process has involved very little — if any — usage of grids. While many of my friends are skeptical about this opinion, grids for me have a similar importance to setting the table for dinner.

Setting the table is an important part of the dinner ritual, and of course one can spend hours making it perfect — aligning silver and dishes, matching table cloth and napkins — but table setting isn't anyone's final goal (I think). I'm a fan of simpler table arrangements that succeed at putting the meal in the spotlight.

For this project I am going with a single column layout where other elements will break this vertical monolyth. Yet, I don't feel like I need a grid or columns right now.

Some of my friends are very skeptical of this approach but truth is: if you know your way with code, a project like this don't require a previously set grid and can make good use of more automatic layout rules (flexbox's `justify-content` is a good example of that).

As mentioned [before](/blog/2020/defining-constraints), I’m challenging myself to build this without any `@media` in my code, meaning the same lines of style should work across different sizes of devices. For the body of text, I’m using a simple `max-width: 60rem`.

###Markdown and frontmatter
I’m using Markdown to write every page in this website except for the home. Making Markdown powerful is a critical part for the success and speed of posting new work so I'm writing the React template in a way that will allow me to control things such as background colour for an icon or images all via frontmatter.

[Img/gif of editing logo color via Markdown]

###Case studies and blog posts
Building the 


###Navigation
Links
Button (do I need it though?)

###Code snippets


###*In my mind* page
This will likely be the last part to ship and will likely change a lot until then. But I want to have a space where I share things not necessarily related to work, like what I'm listening/reading/new habits etc. Still 

[^1]: In case you’re reading this from the future, as I write we’re amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
